`tkpf` is a library for Tkinter GUIs that aims to implement one-way or two-way databinding
heavily influenced by WPF (Windows Presentation Foundation) and lightly by Angular 2+.

# Tutorial
## The layout template
You specify the GUI in an XML file, here named `ExampleWindow.xml`

```xml
<Frame pack-anchor="nw" pack-padx="5">
     <LabelFrame text="Options" pack-anchor="w" pack-fill="x">
        <Radiobutton pack-anchor="w" variable="[(choice)]" value="option1">
            Option 1
        </Radiobutton>        
        <Radiobutton pack-anchor="w" variable="[(choice)]" value="option2">
            Option 2
        </Radiobutton>
        <Combobox pack-anchor="w" textvariable="(selected_suboption)" values="[available_suboptions]"
                  name="combobox"/>
        <Button command="do_stuff">Do stuff</Button>
    </LabelFrame>
</Frame>
```

As you can see, the XML tag names correspond to Tkinter widget class names, 
while XML attributes to their arguments.
`tkpf` is opinionated in that it always uses the better looking `ttk` themed widgets
when available.

Options such as `pack-anchor="nw"` or `grid-row="0"` specify the layout and will be passed to the appropriate 
Tkinter layout manager method, in this case `.pack(anchor='nw')`.

## The view class
You display the GUI by creating a class derived from `BaseWindow` and showing it.
You have to supply the viewmodel in the constructor.

```python
class ExampleWindow(BaseWindow):
    template_path = 'ExampleWindow.xml'

ExampleWindow(ExampleModel()).show()
```
If you want to keep the layout XML in this file inline, you can do that too:

```python
class ExampleWindow(BaseWindow):
    template = '<Label>Some text</Label>'
```

In the view class you can write event handlers. Make that button work for example:

```python
    def do_stuff(self):
        self.combobox.config(state='disabled')
```

This also shows how you can access widgets by name in methods of the view class.

## The viewmodel class
```python
class ExampleModel(ViewModel):
    choice = Bindable(AutoProperty(1))
    available_suboptions = Bindable(AutoProperty())
    selected_suboption = Bindable(AutoProperty())

    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.available_suboptions = ('suboption1', 'suboption2')
```

`AutoProperty` is similar to a C# autogenerated property. By default its datatype is `str`.
You can supply either a default value or a type to its constructor.

`Bindable` is a decorator that you can use on any property to return a bindable property.
It has to know the data type of the wrapped property, so please specify its return type with a type annotation:
```python
@Bindable
@property
def foo() -> int:
    return 1
```

`AutoProperty` takes care of that for you.

Only `int`, `bool`, `float` and `str` types are supported for Tkinter bindings, though for the combobox
 values, you can assign a Python tuple.
 
If an event handler is not found on the view class, it will be looked up on the viewmodel as well.
 
## Data binding syntax
In the XML you specify the direction of data binding with a syntax similar to that of Angular:

```
values="[available_suboptions]"
```
is a one-way binding from data source to view target,
```
textvariable="(selected_suboption)"
```
is a one-way binding from view target to data source, and
```
variable="[(choice)]"
```
is a two-way binding.

## Using custom widgets
You can use custom widgets derived from Tkinter widget classes.
The only thing you have to do is call 

```python
BaseComponent.register(YourCustomWidgetClass)
```

before loading a template that uses it.

## Components
`tkpf` supports breaking up your GUI into components.
Here's an example of a progressbar component with its own viewmodel:

```python
class ProgressbarModel(ViewModel):
    value = BindableProperty(0)
    target = BindableProperty(100)
    
class CustomProgressbar(BaseComponent):
    template = '<Progressbar name="progressbar" variable="[value]" maximum="[target]"/>'
```

and you can use it like this:
```xml
<CustomProgressbar tkpf-model="[progressbar_model]"/>
```

where `progressbar_model` is an attribute or property on your main viewmodel.

## Caveats
This is a work in progress. Look at the project issues to see what's not supported yet.